Carnaroli Risotto 
on Heirloom Tomato & Basil Salad

Carnaroli rice is native to the Novara and Vercelli regions of northern Italy. 
The grains are slightly larger than the more common arborio rice, which means they absorb more liquid, resulting in a slightly creamier risotto. 
Serves 6 

Tomato and Basil Salad 
6 large heirloom tomatoes (different colours if possible) 
1/2 cup basil leaves 
3 Tbsp traditional balsamic vinegar from Modena, Italy, or Venturi-Schulze (optional) 

Carnaroli Risotto 
4 cups water 
2 Tbsp extra-virgin olive oil 
1/2 medium onion, minced 
1 clove garlic, minced 
1/2 cup carnaroli rice 
1/4 cup dry white wine 
2 Tbsp butter 
1/4 cup grated Parmesan cheese 

Tomato and Basil Salad: Slice tomatoes 1/4-inch thick and divide among six plates. Season with salt and pepper, then set aside. 

Carnaroli Risotto: Heat water in a medium pot on medium heat and keep it at a gentle simmer, turning down the heat if necessary. 
Heat oil in a large heavy-bottomed pot on medium-high heat. Add onion and garlic, then sauté, stirring, for about 5 minutes, or until onion is translucent. 
Season well with salt and pepper. Stir in rice and cook for another 4 minutes, or until the grains are well coated with oil. Add wine and 1 cup of the simmering water, stirring constantly until the rice absorbs the liquid. 
Gradually add the remaining water, about 1/2 cup at a time, so rice is always covered in liquid. Keep stirring. (It should take about 18 minutes for the rice to be perfectly cooked. 
Taste it at various intervals near the end. You may need a little more or a little less water, depending on the age of the rice.) When all the liquid is absorbed and rice is al dente, stir in butter and Parmesan. 
Stir vigorously to emulsify everything together. Season if necessary. 

To Serve: Divide risotto evenly on top of plated tomatoes, leaving at least one-third of the colourful tomatoes exposed. Place a few basil leaves around each plate and garnish with a drizzle of balsamic vinegar (optional). 
